What if we have a second
log that lives in a different place we
populate it with some different content.
Hopefully you can see
where I'm going with this.
So call this one log2.db.
And I just modified the add function so
it's gonna add it over there.
And we can run add with some
other properties like hi.
And we'll link to that message
and then third one,
links back to that key.
Okay, so now we've got two databases,
log and log2.db.
And so what if we want to
synchronize these datasets?
What if we want to
concatenate them together?
So we can do that.
That'll be fun.
There's a lot of ways that we could
wire up that duplex transformation.
But I've got a really nifty little way
of doing that on the command line.
This program will let us use
standard in and standard out and
it will just sort of swap them together.
So it's like an Ouroboros,
the snake that eats itself.
That's what we're gonna be
doing on the command line.
Okay, so well, so I'm gonna create
a new file called replicate.js.
And replicate unlike the other programs is
not gonna take, it's not gonna hard code
the log file, we're gonna take that
in as a command line argument.
So that'll be the first command
line argument, first and only.
And then there's a function in
hyper log called replicate.
Sorry, replicate.
So this is a duplex stream.
Duplex streams are kind of like
a telephone conversation you can have
where there's a readable side and
writable side, but both sides can sort
of talk and listen whenever they want.
It's the kind of thing that
whenever you see A.pipe,
B.pipe A, you've got a duplex stream,
which is exactly what we're going to do.
Although it might not look like it because
we have a layer of indirection here
using standard and non-standard app.
Okay, so using this magical program
that I alluded to moment ago,
so what we wanna do is we wanna run
two copies of this program, right?
We wanna run rep.js with log.db and
we wanna run rep.js with log2.db.
So that's exactly what dupsh does.
So, log2.db, so it takes this program
dupsh takes the first commands,
takes the standard out of that commands
and pipes it into the standard in of
the second commands, but then it takes
the standard out of the second command and
pipes it back into the standard
in of the first command.
So this is a way of doing a kind of
symmetric replication song and dance.
Really useful trick if you're building
symmetric protocols because then you don't
have to set up a TCP server and
a client for basically the same code,
but set up in a different way.
So, this is just a nifty little trick.
Do that.
So sometimes it hangs but
usually it works anyways.
So now if I run list.js,
I don't actually see them.
I think there might be a bug in this.
That's too bad.
Yeah,so I think there's a bug in my
dupsh command or in hyper log replicate.
But what it should have done is it should
have printed out all of the documents.
Why don't I go ahead and modify
the replicate command to cheat a little
bit and we'll just load both databases and
will probably work then.
So, we'll load db1,db2.
So log.db is a string and
log2.db, so we have log1.
We have log2 and we can pipe those
replication streams together.
So log1.replicate and log2.replicate and
now this one actually is going to look
more like the duplex stream pattern.
So to r1.pipe(r2).pipe(r1) again.
Now if I run the list program,
that's really weird.
It's still only shows the,
It's not including the other ones.
Maybe because there's no common root.
It's like refusing to deal with this.
So let's go ahead and
modify one of our log files so
that there's sort of like a common
piece coming to them both.
So if I run add.js,
it's still hooked up to log2.
And I'm gonna point at the latest key.
So I'm gonna say hi from log2 and
then I'm gonna link it that one.
And then whoa.
All right Hyperlog is actually refusing
to insert a key that it
doesn't know about yet.
So what I actually wanna
do is I'm gonna copy log.db
just overtop of log2 then it should work.
There we go.
Okay, so now drumroll Okay,
so we wrote something into log2
that log1 doesn't know about yet.
And if I do the replication song and
dance, now if I run the list
which is still hooked up to the first
log I still don't see the second one.
That's okay.
That's really, well anyways,
you can imagine how this would work
if I'd prepared a little more.
And there's a question on the chat,
can we add a blog as
a value to a Hyperlog?You can, in fact
the default in coding with Hyperlog is
to deal with binary pieces of data.
But just like with level db and
Hyperlog is using level three,
it's probably a better idea to stick
to small documents instead and
sort of use another mechanism for
dealing with large files.
Like an example of that that works
pretty well is called Hypercore,
which is part of the debt project.
And it has a streaming replication.
It also internally has a log
in a cap architecture, but
you can use that to exchange blobs and
it's a lot better at that kind of thing.
So,
>> This would have worked,
it would have messed up the chain rate?
>> No,
the chain would have just been fine.
I don't know why it didn't work.
That's too bad but-
>> Because for the other, for
the log2 database we started with
one hash, and that started a chain.
At log1 there was a chain-
>> It did,yeah.
>> -So when you concatenate both of
them there will be no flow rate.
>> Yeah, but then I deleted the second
one and based it on the contents of
the first one, so I'm not sure
why it didn't work then either.
Could be that I accidentally put it into
an inconsistency state or something but